# GCS_UAV_MSC
This C# project was a part of my Master of Science thesis "Design of software for displaying flight parameters of the unmanned platform"
My Master of Science thesis abstract:
Despite continuous efforts to increase the level of autonomy of unmanned aerial systems, there is still no fully autonomous solution, and an essential link in the process of system control is a man - the system operator. Therefore, it is important that the information reaching the operator through the information display system of the control station is presented in an appropriate way, so that the operator can make the right decisions about the control of the unmanned system on its basis. The above-mentioned issues are described in the literature by the concept of human-machine interface and constitute the foundation on which the design process of the control station and its software is based.
The interest in the presented problems was the motivation to undertake the topic of the master thesis, the scope of which included issues related to the construction and software of the control station, in particular the information display systems implemented in their structure.
Therefore, the main goal of the thesis was to develop an application with a graphical user interface that would perform the functionalities of the control station information display system. The developed software would be used to present the values of flight parameters based on data from text files with .log extension obtained from the internal memory of the Pixhawk series flight controller built in the structure of the 3DR Solo unmanned aerial vehicle.
The work on the realization of the assumed objective began with a review of the subject literature, international legal and normative acts. The used NATO standards, such as STANAG 4586 and STANAG 4671, allowed to define the concept of unmanned aerial system, to characterize its structure with particular emphasis on the role of the control station and its software, and to define the requirements that should be met by the control station in terms of information display systems and the functioning of the human-machine interface.
Subsequently, a review and analysis of solutions for control stations of unmanned aerial systems classified in terms of the flight range of the unmanned aerial vehicle was presented.
Then, the structure and functions of the commonly used Mini and Micro flight controllers in UAV structures were characterized. For two specified Pixhawk series flight controllers, the structure of text files with .log extension obtained from their internal memory has been analyzed.
Using software engineering methods, a set of design requirements - functional and non-functional - was developed. Based on the requirements, a graphic concept of the application user interface was described, and a proposed algorithm of software operation was designed.
Sequentially, using the C # programming language together with the Visual Studio environment, the control algorithm and the graphical interface were implemented, in line with the proposed concept. In addition to achieving the objective of the work, significant extensions to the functionality of the developed software have been introduced. The possibility of visualizing flight parameters was provided using information obtained from another flight controller, i.e., mRo Pixhawk installed in the UAV 3DR Iris, and the possibility of analysis allowing for the generation of charts of changes in the value of flight parameters as a function of the flight duration. Moreover, the application has been extended with the functionality of real-time imaging of flight parameters during the flight. The use of dedicated programming libraries enabled the development of an algorithm for decoding messages transmitted via the MAVLink protocol.
The final verification test confirmed the correctness of the tools used during the implementation of the work and the fulfillment of the design requirements It also enabled to formulate the final conclusions summarizing the work done.
